---
layout: wrap_in_div
className: lettered-list
---

<script>
  document.addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", function () {
    var s = document.createElement('style');
    s.innerText = ".lettered-list ul { list-style-type: upper-alpha; }";
    document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0].append(s);
  });
</script>

* A model for the generation of the OR feedback signal: Lsd1 transcriptionally activates an OR, which is co-translationally detected by Perk in the endoplasmic reticulum. OR-Perk interaction activates Perk, which then phosphorylates eif2α, resulting in a global pause in translation initiation and a selective increase in nuclear Atf5 translation. Atf5 activity initiates Adcy3 transcription, and according to our RNAseq analysis also activates transcription of OR chaperones RTP1 and RTP2 (Supplemental Figures S2D).
* nATF5-dependent upregulation of Adcy3 and OR-specific chaperones relieves the ER stress and restores global translation in the OSN. Although this leads to an increase of OR and Adcy3 protein levels, it stops the translation of nATF5 isoform clearing this protein from the nucleus. Increased OR and Adcy3 levels also cause downregulation of LSD1 (Lyons et al., 2013) preventing OR switching and stabilizing OR choice.
* A two-step model of feedback explains its specificity for ORs by providing two independent tests: 1) induction of UPR, and 2) relief of the UPR. Intact ORs (left) that pass both tests are stably expressed for the life of the neuron; non olfactory GPCRs and/or pseudogene ORs may fail to activate Perk allowing the process of OR choice to continue until an intact OR is expressed. At a second level of specificity a GPCR or pseudogene OR that passes the first test may not be recognized by OR-specific chaperones causing prolonged ER stress and sustained LSD1 expression, eventually allowing activation of an OR allele and/or OR gene switching.
